20th Century Literary Criticism and Theory-I
Accessibility Tools
Sign In

Welcome to the course

20th Century Literary Criticism and Theory-I

By Dr. Ashish Kumar Pathak
|
Banaras Hindu University

Learners enrolled: 2811

Course Information
Summary
Course outline
Books and References
Instructor Bio
Course Certificate
Course Information
Join the Course
Course Information
ABOUT THE COURSE:
This course- 20th Century Literary Criticism and Theory I- aims at acquainting UG and PG students with Modern Literary Criticism and Theory as it developed in the 20th century. Literary criticism which used to be author-centric until the 19th century becomes text-centric in the 20th century and the form of literature becomes more important with special focus on the analysis of style and use of language. Thus, emerge formalistic approaches to literature in form of movements, isms, or schools of criticism/theory, instead of being individual-centric and insular in nature. New Criticism, Russian Formalism, Chicago School of Criticism, Structuralism, Poststructuralism and Reader Response Criticism are the movements which originated and flourished in the twentieth century and may be seen as formulating parameters of creative and critical thinking in literary studies which are more appropriately called theories in the post-World War II era. It also takes into account theories of language and sign such as Semiotics and Speech Act Theory. So, it also seeks to look at the nuanced distinction between criticism and theory which are often used interchangeably. Along with providing an overarching view of these movements, the course also delves deep into important essays and concepts written and coined by the chief exponents of these movements. 


INTENDED AUDIENCE: UG, PG Students


PREREQUISITES: Literary Criticism from Classical Antiquity to The Victorian Age (From Plato to T. S. Eliot)
Indicative Industry Sectors :
Education and Training

Note: This is an indicative list based on suggestions provided by course coordinators and should not be treated as final and binding.

Indicative Program Alignments :
B.A.
M.A.
Share: